Let us start with an introduction to Data Structures. 

Data is an integral part of our application or programs. If we define a program, program is a set of instructions which performs operations on data to get some results.

# Introduction to Data Structures
## Data Structures

Data structures can be defined as an arrangement of collection of data items so that they utilize data efficiently, operations on that data can be done efficiently. Without data structures, there cannot be any application. During the execution of a program, how program will manage dta ainside the main memory and perform the operations that is data structures.

So, let's take an example and explain in detail that how the program utilizes data and how they put data inside the memory. 

Let's observe [this](/Introduction/this.png) diagram :- 

Here's our C.P.U. that is central processing unit, can be also called microprocessor. Next is main memory let's say that is RAM. Last is storage, that is hard disk drive or external storage.

**C.P.U.** - It will execute the programs, that is, it is a processor so it will execute the instructions.

**Main Memory** - This is temporary memory or working memeory. It can also be called Primary memory.

**HDD Storage** - This is permanent storage.

When we install any program in our P.C. or our mobile phone, a program or an applicationn will get installed on storage. Then, data is also kept on hard disk. So, let,s take an example of an commomly used application like M.S. word. 

When you will open M.S. word program in your device, this M.S. Word program will be brought into main memory. So whenever you want to run application or pragram, it has to be brought inside the main memory. Then once it is brought in, C.P.U. will start executing this M.S. Word application and then you can start using M.S. Word.

Suppose, this program (M.S. Word) wants to access this data in this file (docx. file), then data has to be brought in the main memory as well. Now from this we can say that a program has to be brought inside the main memory for it's execution, as well as data has to be brought into the main memory for processing on the data, so that these instructions can perform operations on the data. 

***-> The Arrangement or organizing the data inside the main memory for efficient utilization by the application, that arrangement is called Data Structures.***

Let's move further to Databases. 

## DataBase
 
When data is larger in size or commercial data that is used in businesses like banks or retail stores or manufacturing firms, they would have a lot data and all of that that data will be organized in the form tables and stored on the disk. 

***-> Arranging the data in some model, like relational model, in permanent storage, so that it can be retrieved or accessed by the applications easily, that arrangement is called database.***

## Dataware House

The large sized data which is acting like an historical or commercial data, stored in array of disks, for any commercial firm, is called Dataware house. And algorithms written for organizing and managing that data are called datamining algorithms

## Big-Data

As internet is growing day-by-day, and data is also increasing with it, this data, which is also used for many different purposes and has a lot of information about different places, people and things, is called Big Data. 

Further in this, we will only learn about Data Structures.
